---
description: >-
  This page describes the key sub-systems implemented on the Jetbox-Floyd
  system.
---

# 3. FUNCTIONAL OVERVIEW

## 3.1 Power Supply Specifications

The Jetbox-Floyd accepts a wide input voltage range of +7V to +24V. Maximum power consumption with either Nano or NX module installed and all peripherals operating is 35W. The maximum allowable reflected ripple, measured at the voltage input connector is 50 mV p-p. The input power is provided via a barrel jack with 5.5mm OD / 2.5mm ID dimensions \(tip positive\).

{% hint style="warning" %}
Errata: The marking **5VDC IN** on the front panel needs to be read as below:

~~5VDC IN~~ --&gt; 7- 24V DC IN
{% endhint %}



## 3.2 USB Ports

* 2x USB 2.0 ports are available on a vertically stacked dual-port USB 2.0 connector.
* The upper USB 2.0 port can be used for programming during recovery mode. Jumper block JP3 is used to select host mode \(normal operation\) or device mode \(programming operation\)
* 1x USB 3.0 port terminates on an upright right-angle USB 3.0 connector. This connector also supports the USB 2.0 protocol.

The USB2.0 ports are terminated on a vertically stacked USB2.0 connector. The USB3.0 is terminated on an upright USB3.0 connector. Both these connectors are standard connectors & follow standard pinouts.

## 3.3 HDMI Ports

Jetbox-Floyd supports two HDMI 2.0 a/b video output options:

* 1x With Audio
* 1x Without Audio

The Nano module natively supports 1x HDMI and 1x DisplayPort. Jetbox-Floyd uses a bridge chip to convert the DP port to HDMI.

Both video outputs terminate on a dual-port vertically stacked HDMI connector. The connector follows standard HDMI pinouts.

{% hint style="info" %}
HDMI - 1 is with audio & HDMI - 2 is without audio
{% endhint %}

## 3.4 Ethernet Ports

Floyd is equipped with one or two Gigabit Ethernet ports: 

1. \(all models\) A 10/100/1000 Ethernet port routed from the module.
2.  \(01 model only\) A 10/100/1000 Ethernet port derived from the Intel WGI210IT/Intel I210 PCIe Ethernet controller which is accessed via x1 PCIe Lane routed from the module through a PCIe switch.

Both Ethernet ports are accessed with a dual-port vertically stacked RJ-45 jack with integrated magnetics. The jacks indicate Link, Activity, and Speed status associated with each port using integrated LEDs.

{% hint style="info" %}
RJ45 - 2 is available in the JB-FLD-XXX-01 models only
{% endhint %}

### 3.4.1 Power Over Ethernet \(PoE\)

{% hint style="warning" %}
PoE feature is available only on the 01 Model
{% endhint %}

The PoE+ PSE \(Power Sourcing Equipment\) enabled Ethernet ports on the Jetbox-Floyd can be used to power peripherals such as PoE IP-based cameras. The two ports are compliant with 802.3at Type 2 PoE+ standards and support up to 25.5W on each port, depending on the capacity of the supplied power. Jetbox-Floyd administers power negotiation between PSE and PD controllers. The auxiliary power required for the PoE circuit is supplied by a separate input power connector. The PoE input requires a supplied voltage range of 50-57VDC.

{% hint style="warning" %}
The PoE power input is terminated on the optional EXP2. Refer to [Section 16. I/O EXPANSION](16.-i-o-expansion.md) for more details
{% endhint %}

## 3.5 Expansion Connectors

To enhance the usability of Jetbox-Floyd, the front panel is provided with two expansion connectors:

1. EXP1
2. EXP2

### 3.5.1 EXP1

By default, this expansion connector provides access to SER 2 available on the Floyd baseboard. Depending upon the model, the serial ports support different serial protocol modes as provided below:

| Serial Port |  **JB-FLD-NAO-01** |  **JB-FLD-NAO-02** |  **JB-FLD-XNX-01** |  **JB-FLD-XNX-02** |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| SER 1 | RS-232/422/485 | RS-232 | RS-232/422/485 | RS-232 |
| SER 2 | RS-232/422/485 | RS-232/485 | RS-232/422/485 | RS-232/485 |

{% hint style="info" %}
Errata: The **RS-232** marking on the front panel needs to be read as below:

~~RS-232~~ --&gt; SER 1
{% endhint %}

### 3.5.2 EXP 2

By default, this expansion connector provides access to DIO port provided by the Floyd baseboard. The Digital I/Os are 3.3V output compliant & are 5V I/P tolerant. These digital I/Os are realized with an I2C GPIO expander & cant be used as Digital I/Os only.

