---
description: This page describes the key sub-systems implemented on the Athena IV basebaord
---

# 3. FUNCTIONAL OVERVIEW

## 3.1 Processor Modules

Athena IV supports CoMEx Type 10 Mini modules. Currently, Athena IV is shipped with Bay Trail processor with the following specifications:

* E3825 1.33GHz dual core, 2GB RAM
* E3845 1.91GHz quad core, 4GB RAM

{% hint style="info" %}
Athena IV is designed to work with higher end Appollo Lake & Whiskey Lake Intel processor lines. Contact Diamond System Corp sales for more details
{% endhint %}

## 3.2 Power Supply Specifications <a id="3-2-power-supply-specifications"></a>

 The board will be powered from a regulated +5V supply. Maximum allowable reflected ripple, measured at the voltage input connector is 100mV p-p.In addition, a pin is available for users to attach +12 VDC, however this voltage is routed only to the LCD backlight connector and the PC/104 expansion bus connectors. No on-board circuit connects to +12V. The board is provided with ACPI power pushbutton for on/off control. All required supply voltages for the board are derived from the +5V DC input. These power supplies must be sized to support the highest capacity on board features and have enough reserve capacity to support the below add-on features:

| 5V | 3.3V | Feature |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
|  | 0.5A | M.2 |
| 2A |  | USB2.0Ports |
| 1A |  | USB3.0 Port |
| 3A |  | COM Express Module |

## 3.3 Backup Battery <a id="3-3-backup-battery"></a>

A 2x1 input connector is provided for connecting the external backup battery.

## 3.4 Ethernet <a id="3-4-ethernet-ports"></a>

The board provides one standard and one optional 10/100/1000 Ethernet port. The standard port comes directly from the COM module. The optional port is derived from the Intel WGI210IT PCIe Ethernet controller. This controller is accessed viax1 PCIe lane from the COM. 

Both ports have on-board magnetics. The first port is terminated with 2x6 2.54mm pin header. Left column of the 2x6 pin header matches with the Athena II Ethernet connector. 2nd Ethernet port is available on DSC standard 2x5 pin header. 

On-board LEDs are provided for Link, Activity, and Speed on each port. The LEDs are located along the board edge. Both connectors do not provide access to the LED signals.

## 3.5 PC/104 <a id="3-5-audio-interface"></a>

The PC/104 expansion bus enables installation of additional I/O boards. It consists of two stack-through connectors press-fit onto the board, enabling expansion both above and below the board. It supports 5V logic level. The board contains two stack-through / short pin 8-bit and 16-bit PC/104 connectors on the top & bottom side. The 5V supply on the PC/104 connector is routed directly to the input power connector, so that the board may obtain its input power from either the input power connector or the bus connector. PCB pads for pins B10 and C19 \(key pins\) are .060” square on the bottom side, and all other pins are circular. Pins B10 and C19 are plugged with inserts. PC/104 connectors are identified as J1\(64-pin 8-bit connector\) and J2 \(40-pin 16-bit connector\) as in Athena II.

The ISA bus is realized using LPC to ISA IP core within a Artix 7 FPGA, unlike through LPC to ISA in Athena III with an external chip. This would make the ISA bus, processor independent. The FPGA used is a 3.3V device. But the ISA interface works on 5V. To mediate the interface, voltage level translators are used.

## 3.6 USB <a id="3-6-digital-i-o"></a>

Carrier card provides

* 4x USB2.0 \[routed to 2x5 2.54mm headers; 2 ports each on 1 header\]
* 1x USB3.0 \[routed to 2x5 2mm  vertical connector\]

## 3.7 Audio <a id="3-7-display-output-controller"></a>

HD audio link available in the CoM is converted to Analog Audio using Audio codec ALC262. Line In, Line OUT and Mic In signals are terminated with a 2x5 2.54mm header.

## 3.8 Video

**VGA:**

The board supports VGA display interface. On board DDI to VGA chip is used to covert the DDI interface from COM module. Maximum VGA resolution supported is 2048x1152@60Hz

**LVDS LCD:**

Baseboard supports 24-bit single channel LVDS display through 2x15Vertical latching connector. Separate backlight supply connector provides LCD backlight supply and PWM control. Backlight supply is given externally through the main power input connector.

## 3.9 Serial Ports

The board supports up to 4 serial ports using PCIe to Quad UART controller \(XR17V354\). UARTs from the CoM are not utilized.All the 4 ports support RS232/422/485 configuration realized using SP336 transceivers. Protocol selection for Serial ports 1-4 and Termination \(121 Ohm\) for RS422 and RS485 protocols are controlled using jumpers.

Of the 4 serial ports, ports 3 & 4 are multiplexed between XR17V354 \(PCIe – UART\) & XR16C2850 \(ISA-UART\) with 0E resistors. This is done to provide backward compatibility with Athena II/III. Ports 1 & 2 are provided by XR17V354 at all times. By default, all the 4 ports are provided by the XR17V354.

The serial ports are terminated on an 80-pin connector.

## 3.10 SATA <a id="3-8-led-indicators"></a>

The board supports 2 SATA ports. One of the SATA ports is connected to M.2 SATA connector for mass storage.  The socket connector makes use of M-Key which can plug in an M.2 card with a form factor of 2230. The other SATA port is shared between 7-pin SATA connector & a SATA-IDE bridge to support legacy storage devices like the 2.5” hard drive.

## 3.11 Integrated Drive Electronics \(IDE\) <a id="3-9-pcie-minicard-socket"></a>

The board provides an optional support for IDE storage devices. This is achieved with one of the SATA interfaces from the COM. The multiplexing between 7-pin SATA & SATA-IDE bridge is achieved using 0E bypass resistors. At a time, only one of the interfaces will be active; either the 7-pin or the IDE.

The 7-pin connector is a standard 7-pin SATA connector. This connector doesn’t support SATA-DOM.

The SATA-IDE conversion is provided by JMD330, which is essentially a SATA-PATA converter.The IDE interface makes use of a custom 40-pin connector and not the standard 44-pin connector. To use the IDE interface, a 40-pin custom cable is required. Some pins of the connector are multiplexed with 0E resistors. This is done to provide backward compatibility with Athena II. Signals like RESET, POWER\_BUTTON, 5V& GND are shared. By default, the pinouts conform to that of Athena II, without using the IDE, achieved with different assembly options.

## 3.12 Watch Dog Timer \(WDT\) <a id="3-10-pcie-link-routing"></a>

The board contains a watchdog timer \(WDT\) circuit with programmable delay time derived from the FPGA. The WDT can be enabled, disabled, and retriggered in software. If the WDT times out before it is retriggered, it will cause a system reset. The watchdog timer circuit timeout period is programmable from 0 to 255 seconds with 1 second or better resolution.

The WDT is terminated on a 1x3 2.54mm header.

## 3.13 PCIe Link Routing

3 PCIe lanes from the COM are utilized in the carrier card.

Lane 1 – PCIe to UART

Lane 2 – Second Gigabit Ethernet through I210 Ethernet controller

Lane 3 –  PCIe to FPGA for future use

Lane mapping from COM module

## 3.14 Data Acquisition

The board provides a data acquisition sub circuit containing analog input, analog output, and digital I/O features. This circuit is controlled by an FPGA attached to the COM module via the LPC bus. A 2x25 2.54mm pin header on the board provides access to JTAG signals for reprogramming the FPGA on the board and in the field.

The data acquisition circuit is based on the Diamond Athena III board.

Features of the DAQ include:

16 single-ended / 8 differential analog inputs with 16-bit resolution, programmable input ranges, and 200KHz sample rate;

4 analog outputs with 16-bit resolution and programmable output ranges

24 digital I/O in 3 8-bit ports with programmable direction and buffered outputs

1 External trigger Input and 1 Timer Output.

The digital I/Os on the Athena III were 3.3V O/P & 5V I/P tolerant. To meet this requirement on the Athena IV, 74LCX245MTCX transceivers are used with output enable and direction control. These are directly controlled by the FPGA. By default, resistors are mounted to configure the DIOs as inputs with the transceiver outputs disabled.

The DIOs are also provided with pull-up/down options. By default, pull-down are connected to the DIOs. To the connect pull-up/down to the DIOs, jumper JP6 has to be appropriately mounted. Refer to section 2.14.6 for more details. A fuse is used on the DIO connector for external connections that is rated for ~100mA maximum sustained current.

Apart from programming the FPGA with the JTAG interface, the board is also provided with provisions to program the FPGA directly from the COM via SPI interface. The SPI of the COM is interfaced with the flash of the FPGA. However, since this flash is also used by FPGA, the data path to the SPI flash is multiplexed and can be redirected using the jumper JP10. The jumper JP9 is used to redirect the SPI of the COM from the TPM to the SPI flash and the same jumper is used to select the CS\# either from the FPGA or the from COM. Jumper configuration details are provided in sections 2.17.7 & 2.17.8

## 3.15 Trusted Platform Module <a id="3-11-pci-104-and-pcie-104-expansion-interface"></a>

The board provides an optional Board ID security solution from Infineon using the SLB9670XQ12FW643XUMA1. SLB9670XQ12FW643XUMA1 is interfaced to the COM over SPI interface.  


## 3.16 LED Indicators <a id="3-12-m-2-socket"></a>

The board provides the following LED indicators. All LEDs are located near to board edge or their respective features. All LEDs are labeled in silkscreen with their function. The LED ref des \(Dnnn\) is not marked on the silkscreen and is omitted since it  clutters up the legibility of the LED function.

Power on:                     Green LED for 5V

Power Good                 Green LED for Power Good indication.

Ethernet:                       Green LED for Link, activity, and speed for each port

SATA ACT\#                   Green LED for SATA activity

FPGA DONE:                Green LED for FPGA\_DONE

User LED:                     Blue LED driven by data acquisition FPGA

## 3.17 Jumpers <a id="3-13-sata-connector"></a>

Athena IV consists of 10 jumpers, which aid in configuring certain functionalities. The available jumpers & their functionalities have been tabulated below:

| Jumper | Functionalities |
| :--- | :--- |
| JP1 | Change serial port protocol mode  Enable pull-up/down on DIOs |
| JP4 | Select LVDS scan direction & mapping |
| JP5 | Select LVDS VDD & backlight voltage levels |
| JP6 | Configure ISA IRQ settings |
| JP7 | Enable 121E termination for serial ports 1 & 2 |
| JP8 | Enable 121E termination for serial ports 3 & 4 |
| JP9 | Select SPI from CoM/FPGA for FPGA flash  Select CS\# from CoM/FPGA  Enable global power enable |
| J6 | Enable watchdog timer functionality |
| J13 | Enable ADC in single/differential ended  Enable ADC in unipolar/bipolar  Configure DAC in unipolar/bipolar |
| J25 | Enable headless mode operation |

