# 6.7	Extracting WIM File

**Note:** This step is required only if the .wim file has to be created so that the same image can be used multiple times on different system. Otherwise proceed with the next step. 

1. Connect the HDD which contains windows 10 and M.2 2230 SATA which contains the Windows 10 customized OS installed to the ATHENA-IV board. 

2. Boot the ATHENA-IV board to WinPE bootable pen drive. 

3. WinPE built in **DISM** tool can be used to capture the image. 

4. Use below command to capture the drive of M.2 2230 SATA. 

**X:\Windows\System32&gt; DISM.exe /Capture-Image /ImageFile:D:\Athena-IV.wim /CaptureDir:C: /Name:Athena-IV /Bootable** 

**X:\Windows\System32&gt; DISM.exe /Capture-Image /ImageFile:D:\system.wim /CaptureDir:S: /Name:Athena-IV\_system** 

**NOTE:** /Bootable flag is mandatory, System.wim creation also mandatory. 

Elapsed time: around 5 minutes. 

Here C: is the Drive letter for M.2 2230 SATA which has the installed Windows 10 customized OS image, Athena-IV.wim is the file name for the file that will be created \(any name with file extension as .wim can be used\). D: is the drive letter where we want to store created Athena-IV.wim file, it will be HDD or Pen drive. X: is the WinPE bootable Drive. S: is system reserved partition. 

So by now Athena-IV.wim and system.wim files should be created in D: directory. 

5. The image can now be dumped to any other M.2 2230 SATA disk with 32GB capacity say M.2 2230 SATA 1. Before proceeding further make M.2 2230 SATA 1 Bootable by following the steps mentioned in Appendix A.

Now you are having one 32GB Bootable drive i.e. M.2 2230 SATA 1. Keep attached pen drive or HDD which is having Athena-IV.wim and system.wim. Boot from the bootable WinPE pen drive. 

Then give the following command. 

**X:\Windows\System32&gt; DISM.exe /Apply-Image /ImageFile:D:\Athena-IV.wim /Index:1 /ApplyDir:W:** 

**X:\Windows\System32&gt; DISM.exe /Apply-Image /ImageFile:D:\system.wim /Index:1 /ApplyDir:R:** 

**X:\Windows\System32&gt;bcdboot.exe w:\Windows /s R:** 

**Elapsed time**: around 20 minutes. 

Here W: is the Drive letter for M.2 2230 SATA 1 which has 29GB partition and R is 100MB partition of the M.2 2230 SATA 1.D drive having the stored Athena-IV.wim and system.wim file. 

**Elapsed time**: around 20 minutes. 

Where J: is the drive letter for M.2 2230 SATA 1.

